In this video we going to discuss IP version 6 access control lists or IP v 6 AC ls on the same way
as with IP version for IP vs 6 access control lists allow you to permit or deny traffic in your network
and are a component of a layered security model.
Why security breach.
In the real world you don't necessarily just want to use access control lists for your security.
You want to implement firewalls and other mechanisms such as intrusion prevention systems or IP addresses
but access lists are typically a first line of defense in security implementations not IP 6 access lists
share many of the same characteristics of IP version 4.
So the knowledge that you've gained when working with IP version for access lists can also be applied
to IP vs 6 access lists.
So they are very similar but there are differences between the two that you need to be aware of in this
topology I've got three Cisco Iowa's heavy routers running in Janus 3 the rods are configured per the
topology diagram notices an example that wrought a one on the left is able to paying the loop back of
rather three so we could ping the loop back directly like that or we could specify a source address
being the loop back of a one so right a one can ping the loop back of router 3 directly using the gigabit
00 interface or using the loop back as the source of the traffic.
So in order to confirm t IP v 6 and there's a lot of options here but we'll specify access list and
let's call this access list 1 and press enter question mark shows us that we can permit or deny traffic
as an example.
So I'm going to permit a source network of 2001 colon 1 colon colon slash 64 going anywhere.
So in other words we're going to permit all traffic on this network but that doesn't include the loop
back of Route 1 or going to gigabit 00 and type IP vs sinks.
And again we have a lot of options but in this case we're going to use a traffic filter of ACL 1 inbound
So previously we were able to ping the loop back of rudder 3 from the loop back of wrought a 1 as well
as using the gigabit 00 interface so pinging the loop back of rudder 3 works but when we specify the
loop back as the source the ping doesn't work we've got a zero success rate whereas this way we've got
100 percent success rate so the Axis list is definitely working.
So show HPV 6 axis list shows us how axis list we can see that they are eleven matches so ping that
again we don't see any matches on this line.
The implicit deny is dropping the traffic fee paying this way.
We see the additional matches because the source traffic here is coming from 2001 colon 1.
And that's what we matching in this access list show IP vs 6 interface gigabit 00 shows us information
such as the link local address global unique cost address multicast groups that have been joined.
But notice Shia inbound access list is access list one ACL one so we can see the access list bound on
that interface.
So there was a simple example of an IP version 6 access list permitting and denying traffic.
That's an example of a standard access list.
I hope you enjoyed this video.
If you did please like it and please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.